# SN 01 - Function over Form

[https://github.com/Zageron/rs-pong](https://github.com/Zageron/rs-pong)

----

- [SN 01 - Function over Form](#sn-01---function-over-form)
  - [Project](#project)
  - [Constraints](#constraints)
    - [Technical Constraints](#technical-constraints)
    - [Design Constraints](#design-constraints)
    - [Implementation Constraints](#implementation-constraints)
    - [Completion Requirements](#completion-requirements)

----

## Project

Create a data-only play space which allows a ball to bounce around.

----

## Constraints

### Technical Constraints
  
- No graphics.
- No sounds.
- No inputs.

### Design Constraints

- User must read output of terminal to observe state of the simulation.
- Ball may only bounce off of the walls.
- There are no paddles.
- There is no visual or auditory feedback.

### Implementation Constraints

- A play field shall exist.
- Field shall be represented as four floating points.
  - Floating points should be whole numbers.
  - Lenths between adjacent points should be even.
- A moving point, or ball, shall exist.
  - Ball will begin at center stage.
  - Ball will be given a random vector.
  - Ball will travel along the vector until it intersects with a line between two points.
- "reflective" tiles have two features:
  - A direction, or normal.
  - Affect the vector of the ball `vectorNew = -2 * (inVector dot wallNormal) * wallNormal + inVector`.

### Completion Requirements

- [ ] Data structure representing the play field.
- [ ] Algorithms to simulate a ball moving around the field in accordance to the design of Pong.
- CLI outputs the following textual feedback:
  - [ ] "The ball has spawned at [x,y], with a vector of [x,y]"
  - [ ] "The ball has bounced off of the wall at [x,y], with a vector of [x,y]"
  - [ ] Intersection point on two lines. ([Line Intersection](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2050850/find-point-of-intersection-between-two-vectors-in-matlab))

----
